Fewer men are diagnosed with common mental health disorders such as depression and anxiety but that is not because men don’t struggle with their mental health.

Research shows that men are much less likely to talk about their problems, to go to the GP or ask for help.

Often they face pressure to be strong, to ‘man up’ or they are told that ‘boys don’t cry’. Many feel that mental ill-health is seen as a weakness.

Men are more likely to use alcohol or other substances to help them cope with problems. They are also more likely to kill themselves – approximately three quarters of people who die by suicide in the UK are men.

We believe that "it's okay not to be okay”. Talking about it helps! 

Support organisations for men
CALM
Telephone: 0800 585858

CALM (Campaign Against Living Miserably) was set up to try to reduce the number of male suicides. It provides online support as well as a telephone helpline available from 5pm to midnight every day.

Men's Health Forum
Men’s Health Forum is concerned with physical and mental health. It also has a Beat Stress section specifically for men.

Male Voiced
Male Voiced supports men who have eating disorders and tries to break down the stigma around men and eating disorders.

Life Signs
Life Signs is a self injury support organisation providing information geared towards men who self-harm.

Men's Sheds
Men's Sheds is a growing movement enabling mainly men to find friendship and mutual support through common interests such as carpentry, gardening, car repairs or model making.

Mankind
Telephone: 01823 334244

Mankind runs a confidential helpline available to all men across the UK suffering from domestic violence or domestic abuse by their current or former wife or partner. Their helpline is open Monday to Friday 10am to 4pm.

Respect - Men's Advice Line
Telephone: 0808 801 0327
Email: info@mensadviceline.org.uk

Respect - Men's Advice Line provides a confidential helpline for men experiencing domestic violence from a partner, ex-partner or family member. They are available to talk Monday to Friday 9am to 8pm.

OnlyDads
OnlyDads provide UK-wide support to all parents from those in full contact with their children, to those who have little or no contact. There is advice, from an expert panel, ranging from finances and debt, to dating and relationships.

https://www.mind.org.uk/information-support/your-stories/man-up-getting-more-men-in-mental-health/

https://www.nhs.uk/mental-health/nhs-voluntary-charity-services/charity-and-voluntary-services/get-help-from-mental-health-helplines/

https://www.menshealthforum.org.uk/howru-hub

local- 

https://www.chrysaliscentreforchange.co.uk/

https://www.sthelensmind.org.uk/